To allow the canopy matchmaker to distinguish what type of application a solution is (and hence avoid launching two of the same types of applications), the Appotology was introduced.

The apptology is an ontology that expresses what "types of application a solution is (or what roles an a solution is to fullfil), such as "screenReader", "magnifier", etc. There is nothing in the apptology preventing a solution from being of multiple types (eg. both a screenreader and magnifier).

Note that while the apptology can be used to describe any type or capability of a solution, it should only be used to express mutually exclusive application types. So, for example, it only makes sense that a single screenreader is running on the system at any given time, whereas it is ok for multiple text-editors to be running on the system at the same time. The reason for this is that the canopy matchmaker uses the apptology to decide which applications to launch on the system, or rather, when two solutions are conflicting in their capabilities/roles and only one should be launched. A more detailed description of the Canopy Matchmaker flow can be found here: [Canopy Matchmaker Documentation](CanopyMatchMaker.md).

There are several known and serious issues with the apptology and its current usage, amongst other that it doesn't express how to turn on and off a certain feature of a solution, which could affect it's role (or solution type) - such as turning off the voice in a combined screenreader/magnifier. The issues are described in this JIRA: https://issues.gpii.net/browse/GPII-1998